# Password Generator 

#### Video Demo: [click here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ&list=RDdQw4w9WgXcQ&start_radio=1)
---

## Description:

- Passwords are generated via command line arguments.
- Generated passwords are printed to the terminal screen and rated on its strength.
- Automatically these passwords are saved to the clipboard.
- Optionally by typing **yes** after generating the password it can be saved to a csv file.

> [!NOTE]
> The csv file generated should only be a temporary just to be used import into a password manager and immediately deleted afterwards.

- Additionally you can import other password-csv files from Google,Firefox, etc into one csv file and import that in your password manger

I had a bit too much fun when making this generator so please use the **help** function to see the different uses available for this password manager:

```
python project.py -help
```

---

## Journey:

I decided for my project to make a password generator due to my recent interest in cybersecurity. 

This project is partially inspired by [Proton-Pass](https://proton.me/pass) (My current password manager).
When I was navigating through the website I saw you can import csv files from firefox, google, etc.
There is  also a feature to randomly generate passwords based on specific criteria. 
Based on these features I wanted to create a password generator in python that was capable of doing the same thing and more.

Initially the project was written using the random module as its randomness backbone. After some research I released the random module is pseudorandom and was not truly random which is not secure.
Upon this discovery the **random module** was then switched to the **secrets module** to ensure that these were truly secure and random passwords.

Writing the csv functions I would say was the most difficult portion of this exercise for me.
I released just I was not that comfortable yet with the csv/open module syntax
noticed when I tried to implement ideas I had in my head but they were not working in my code.

For instance **password.csv** is the file I use to store the data generated by the user. 
Initially this function was completely writing all the data and I soon realised I needed to append the data not write it.

I wanted this generator to work via command line arguments so I used the sys module, also using regular expressions to search for these arguments. 
I also wanted these command line arguments to be modular where users can enter -h or -help to get the same result.

Using the tabulate library I added a function to present the csv file in a nice table for the user.
Alongside that I added functionality so the user can clear the csv file.

The code is not perfect but it works. If you see any improvements that can be made, feel free to let me know


